Internet can simply be said to be a network that is global and connects a lot of computers from all around the world. The internet has evolved to become very easy and simple in the accomplishment of all our everyday activities that were extremely difficult to manage and time consuming in the past. Our lives would be totally unthinkable and unimaginable without the invention of the internet. Everything in life has a positive and negative side, so also the internet has its cons and pros. The internet has totally impacted our lives in both positive and negative ways and I will be discussing some of the effects the internet has had on us.
The internet has made online communication very simple and easy. A long time before the advent of the internet, the means of communication was through letters which took time to deliver because of the distance of travel and also cost of money. Nowadays, we can send messages and connect to someone on the other side of the world just by connecting our devices to the internet and opening one of the various social websites we have now and our messages will be delivered within a few seconds.
The invention of the internet has drastically reduced and cut down the consumption of paper and the use of paper works in schools, government offices, colleges, non-governmental offices, educational institutions, shops, industries, businesses, railways, training centres and universities to a very large extent through computerising almost everything. We can get informed about all of the happenings and news all over the world within seconds in one place.
The internet is a very efficient and effective tool for gathering large information that one might require on whatever topic within a very few seconds. The internet has helped the business, travel and education sector develop by putting all needed information out there. The access to public libraries can now be gotten online and there are tons of textbooks and other papers and resources on any and every topic on the internet.
Before the internet, people wasted a lot of time on various issues that might seem absurd today. There were no online stores so one had to the go to the mall personally if he/she needed something. People had to wait in long lines to get something as simple as a travel ticket. Nowadays, we can book a train or a plane ticket online with just a very few clicks without any stress and we can printout our travel ticket or just download a softcopy of the ticket on our mobile.
Meetings and conferences have been made easier by the internet as we don’t have to travel for business meetings or any other business related matter. Meetings can be organised, arranged and carried out from the comfort of our offices through conferencing, video calling, skype or any of the other brilliant tools available. The internet has helped improved many facets of our lives and the society and no matter what the negative effects of the internet are, the pros outweigh the cons.