The internet and cyberspace is one of the greatest inventions of modern times. We are able to accomplish a lot of things with the help of the internet. Lots of discoveries and inventions have come to place due to the ever helpful hand of the internet also referred to as the network of all networks. It curtails private, public, academic, business, and government networks of local to global scope. It is the system of interconnected computers.
The internet can be said to be one of the blessings to mankind, but can this blessing also be a curse? Many have praised the benefits that the internet has brought to mankind, some even refer to the internet as a god, but can this statement be attested due to the contrary belief some people have of the internet being a curse to humanity. This can be said to be either true or false because people would see it in various perspectives.
We try to dismiss the disadvantages of the internet based on the enormous catalogue of its benefits, some of us also try to cast out the merits of the internet due to the way its demerits have affected us in one way or the other.
Let’s try to look at some of the blessings the internet has brought to us and try to look at the curse aligned with it:
Education – The internet has blessed the educational system due to the easiness it has brought to the teaching and learning situation. It has brought about an easy scope of the curriculum. Since the internet is a wide encyclopedia of information, students have found it easy in researching topics, assignments and projects. Teachers have benefitted from it because it has increased their knowledge base. Looking at these good benefits, we might want to dismiss the fact that the internet have served as a great factor of distractions. The internet contains a lot of things that can keep students away from their studies.
Business transactions have being made easy through online shopping sites, online banking and so on. Before the dawn of the internet, activities of such were strenuous and quite excruciating but the network of all networks has made everything within our fingertips. This medium has also created a black hole of internet scams and frauds. Through the availability of just a few details, a hacker can transfer all funds in a person’s account. This is a very disheartening case. Notwithstanding, the internet made these strenuous activities quite easy.
The internet has also made an easy way to access contacts of lost friends and families that you have not seen for a very long time. You can chat with them online and also pass along important information which can be sometimes life determining. This merit is life changing because it has brought together many lost ones and saved a lot of lives mentally, psychologically, socially and emotionally. This gave way for fraudsters to scam people pretending to be who they are not.
We cannot really say the internet is a blessing or a curse because it has its merits and its demerits and let us not forget the saying that goes thus ‘behind every blessing is a curse’.